OK.
Now that we have our search field value stored on our state.
Let's actually use it to filter out the monsters where their names don't match the field.
Now how we'll do this is in the render.
We don't want to actually modify our state's monster array because we want to keep the raw data in case
somewhere in this component.
We need to use the base unmodified array what we'll do instead is make a new array using the DOT filter
method that we've learned.
So what we'll do is we will actually first use a concept called D structuring and what D structuring
allows us to do is pull properties off of an object and set them to constants that we put inside of
here.
So the syntax is we say concept and then we put our SQL bracket notation and here we'll use the actual
object we want a d structure from so the state object is what we want to pull the properties off of
and what we want to do is use the same property name that we want to set as the constant.
So when we say monsters and search fields like this we'll be pulling off the search field value and
the monster's value off of our state object and setting them to constants called Monsters and search
field.
This is the equivalent of saying constant monsters equals this dot state DOT monsters and this and constant
search field is equal to this dot state DOT search field it's just an easier way and a quicker way for
us to write this out and now that we have our monsters and search field what we'll do is set a new concept
called filtered monsters that we will set as our monsters dot filter right and we were from our filter
method we get back a new array based off of the function that we pass into it where we'll get the monster
that it's currently iterating over and what we want to do is take the name call to lower case on it
which is a method on all strings.
And here we see converts all the alphabetic characters in a string to lowercase and we want to do this
because we don't want our search to be case sensitive.
If we did it we would just not use the two lowercase.
And then we'll call dot includes.
And what this includes method does is similar to our array method.
It just checks whether or not the string value we pass inside of our includes is actually in the string
that it's being called on.
So here we'll use our search field and we also want to lowercase it because again we want to make sure
that if the user types in capitals we don't want that to be case sensitive either so includes just like
the array method includes will return true or false based off of whether or not this string includes
the string we're passing to it and now instead of passing in our state of monsters we'll just pass in
our new filtered monsters.
And now we see that as we type
we're filtering out the monsters that don't have what we've typed in inside of their name now we'll
notice that our component is actually re rendering every type.
This is because when ever set state is called and the properties change react re renders our component
it recalls the render method which means that our filtered monsters method here is actually getting
called again and this is great because what we've done is we've triggered this set state when ever they've
typed something in which in turn sets the state value of search field which then in turn causes are
component to re render and recall the render method which then re filters out the monsters by calling
our monsters that filter again setting a new array which it'll then pass to our card list which then
renders card lists.
And this way we're able to just dynamically live update our card list based on what we're typing in
and this is what's great about react is that react is able to take control of what to render what to
re render in its views without us having to do all of the extensive calls of showing elements and hiding
elements react is able to do so for us as long as we understand the rules.
Now we will definitely explore this in greater depth a little bit later because right now we have to
just expand upon some other concepts but I promise you that we will take a deeper dive into how this
works in just a little bit.